---
published: true
layout: post
author: Chris Stavitsky
title: In Praise of Newsletters
---
On September 9, 2016, I sent out the first **Tromple** email newsletter. The conceit of **Tromple** was, and still is:

> (Once every few weeks or so, I collect a small number of links (articles, images, sometimes videos or even full-on movies) centered loosely on a single theme. Then, I send them out in a little digest called Tromple.)

A few weeks prior to that first issue I emailed, I'd been conversations about food authenticity. I happened to read this [article about the lack of truffles in truffle oil](https://priceonomics.com/there-are-no-truffles-in-truffle-oil/). I began thinking about other types of counterfeits, and I found myself dredging up memories of going to Chinatown as a child and ogling the fake Pokémon cards and (once I had developed truly sophisticated tastes, by age ten) Rolexes. 

These concepts clumped together in a way that made sense to me. I decided this might be my chance to emulate the format of a mysterious, one-off digital 'magazine' (there was only [ever one issue](http://observist.net/)) I found a couple years ago. This 'magazine', called 'The Observist', was a collection of links around a single theme: Hermits.

The Observist, Issue 1, was like a large wrapped present containing several smaller ones. It led to various articles, movies/documentaries, TED talks, even books. I was struck by the feeling that someone (someone being [Tom van Beveren](http://tomvanbeveren.nl/), a Dutch UX designer, according to his website) had put thought and effort into gathering all these various Hermit-related items and making the whole greater than the sum of its parts. I loved this first issue of the Observist and was surprised that he never created more. Tom, if you ever happen to come across this, I'm glad you made that Hermits issue. I can't even remember how I found it, but it definitely made a great impression on me.

I privately pretended that I was continuing the Observist's brief legacy with my first issue of Tromple. The thing was barebones, an image-free email with no proprietary content except my brief comments. But despite its simplicity, I liked thinking of it as a magazine: ongoing and with issues that focused on one concept at a time. I figured that, like the Observist, I'd provide the links and a brief, impartial summary.

Then the next question arose: once compiled, who would I send it to?

I figured I'd send it to some of my close friends, who I usually email random links to, and then it struck me that this might be a great way to keep in touch with others whom it's harder to keep day to day contact with. Some of us may no longer live in the same city, or work together, but these are I felt were genuinely curious folks, who might be interested in receiving interesting content. I sent the first issue to people ranging from their early twenties to their seventies and everywhere in between.

I didn't use an app to create any kind of bulk mailing list. Tromple didn't have any legs yet, and it hadn't proven itself important enough for this. Instead, I sent the newsletter directly to myself and BCC'ed all the receipients. There were a couple of reasons for this. First, I wasn't interested in trying to acquire subscribers. That would have taken the focus away from providing interesting content and keeping in touch with people I wanted to. I sent Tromple only to people I knew, and who knew me.

Second, I wanted to make sure people actually got the email! As a Gmail user, I tend to see Mailchimp/Tinyletter emails filtered into my 'Social' tab -- a wasteland of unwanted Facebook updates and store spam. I didn't want this to happen to the people I sent Tromple to. I meant to make it clear to them that this was specifically for them. It wasn't autogenerated and prettified by an app, and it wasn't there to sell anything or even self-propagate. It was as natural as just shooting them an email.

I sent out the first issue and got a bunch of responses back. People seemed to like it. A few people I hadn't spoken to for a while sent me a note and I was thrilled to hear from them.

And so I sent out some more. I wasn't very consistent about it except for maybe the first 3, which I sent out like clockwork at the same time, once a week. Then I lagged for a while. In total, since I started about 10 months ago, I've sent out 9 issues. I'd say that's fairly magazine-like.

One thing I want to note: if anyone was bothered by Tromple, I wanted them to let me know so I could stop sending them mail. Because I already knew everyone I was emailing, and I wasn't using a bulk-mailing service, there was no unsubscribe button. I let everyone know that if s/he were no longer interested in Tromple, to let me know and I would remove him or her. Over the last 9 issues, exactly zero people have asked to be removed from the list (of course, it's possibly some may have created a filter to send Tromple directly to spam). Which tells me I'm doing something right.

Writing a newsletter is great because it's a semi-frequent, low-pressure way to feel connected to the people on my list. I hope it keeps a good chunk of them feeling connected to me. Receiving a newsletter isn't as urgent as getting emailed directly; there's no pressure to respond. It won't negatively affect our relationship if recipients don't respond. But, if someone _does_ want to respond, it's absolutely welcome. The newsletter format also provides us some interesting fodder to talk about and chew on. I like people who like to chew on ideas, and those are the kinds of people I most want to stay in touch with.

Speaking of which, Tromple has become an outlet for me to chew on ideas myself. Professional life, depending on your profession, doesn't allow these kinds of outlets. We have a group chat client at work, and there are some fun rooms where people post funny things, but there's not really a ton of room for thinking about things, making connections. I don't regularly read any of the same publications, so Tromple has become a reason for me to seek out new interesting things to read, and a way to organize and tie together what I've found. And those interesting things don't necessarily have to be useful. They aren't required to teach you how to be a millionaire in the future, or how to accept your body better. They can just be interesting.

In general, maintaining a low-pressure newsletter has been good for me. It lets me maintain a connection that feels worthwhile with the people I'm interested in staying in touch with. It prompts me to seek out new interesting things to read. It causes me to analyze what I'm reading and look for connections among seemingly unrelated things. It lets me inject a little of my own personality and commentary on the links I sent out.

For all these same reasons, I think that writing a newsletter could be good for you, too. I wouldn't urge you to follow the same format as me, necessarily (unless that's what draws you). But the world will only benefit from messages and emails with thought and care behind them. If you decide to start a newsletter yourself, I certainly hope you include me on it.

On an unrelated note, I'm going to try moving from sending my messages via Gmail, and go through [TinyLetter](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/13/fashion/tinyletter-newsletters-the-new-blog.html). It might mean that the newsletter goes to some peoples' 'Social' tab on Gmail, but I'm curious to see how it affects Tromple. I'm also interested in opening up the newsletter to new subscribers, ones I might not know, and allowing people to unsubscribe themselves if they're no longer interested (in a way that's less blunt than having to email me and ask to be taken off the list). If you're not subscribed, sign up here.

 <form style="border:1px solid #ccc;padding:3px;text-align:center;" action="https://tinyletter.com/tromple" method="post" target="popupwindow" onsubmit="window.open('https://tinyletter.com/tromple', 'popupwindow', 'scrollbars=yes,width=800,height=600');return true"><p><label for="tlemail">Enter your email address</label></p><p><input type="text" style="width:140px" name="email" id="tlemail" /></p><input type="hidden" value="1" name="embed"/><input type="submit" value="Subscribe" /><p><a href="https://tinyletter.com" target="_blank">powered by TinyLetter</a></p></form>
         