---
published: false
---
## The First Half of 2018: Books I'm Gonna Read

Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.

I've got a number of different books I'm planning on reading this year. Here's what they are, how I found out about them, and why I'm interested in reading them.

- 

- [**Ubik - Philip K. Dick**](https://www.amazon.com/Ubik-Philip-K-Dick/dp/0547572298) - I read my first of Dick's novels in late 2017 (the Man in the High Castle; I picked it up while browsing in Wicker Park's Myopic Books). The first thing I noticed as I settled into the book was that the grammar of Man in the High Castle felt odd and almost syncopated, off-beat, but compellingly so. I found myself drawn in by the characters and their place in his imagined Axis-victorious world post-WWII. Recently, I bought a secondhand 'Disguise' neck gaiter/face mask from the brand Cav Empt, a visual-heavy brand cofounded by Japanese streetwear stalwart Sk8thing (Sk8thing contributed heavily to the early designs of A Bathing Ape, which had by far the best sense of humor of any streetwear brand as far as I'm concerned). I read [an interview with the other cofounder, Toby Feltwell](http://www.dazeddigital.com/fashion/article/31437/1/cav-empt-discuss-streetwear-grime-and-anonymity), who explained the Cav Empt brand's name: 

> The character Pat Conley in Philip K Dick’s “Ubik” has psychic powers that allow her to change the past, and she has “caveat emptor” (buyer beware) tattooed on her shoulder. The first thing we did was a Ubik homage T and Sk8thing put “CAV EMPT” on the shoulders.

The idea of reading another PKD novel was called forth from the back of my mind, and given the Cav Empt tie-in, I figured this would be an excellent choice. There's this idea in a book I got a few years ago called 'Steal Like an Artist': find out the things that inspired the people who inspire you, and trace that tree of inspiration as far back as you can go.
